# Frequently Asked Questions

## The program crashes immediately when I try to run it

### Possible cause 0: incomplete file downloaded

- If you don't have a complete package of this software already, please DO NOT download the zip files marked with `OTA` in the file name, which are for incremental update and shall not be used alone. In most cases, Windows users should download `MAA-vX.X.X-win-x64.zip`.
- If the application does not run properly after an automatic update, it may be due to some bugs within the autoupdater. Please try reinstalling the application and migrating `config` directory from the old install to the new install.

### Possible cause 1: missing runtime libraries

- Please try installing [Visual C++ Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160#visual-studio-2015-2017-2019-and-2022) and [.NET Framework 4.8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-framework/net48), and restart your computer and the application.
- In certain scenarios the prompt is missing `.net 4.8.1` rather than `.net 4.8` - `This application requires one of the following versions of the .NET framework,Version=v4.8.1`, this is generaly caused by the misuse of the arm64 version of MAA. Please install the x64 version, which is `MAA-vX.X.X-win-x64.zip` instead of `MAA-vX.X.X-win-arm64.zip`

### Possible cause 1: missing other runtime libraries

- Please download [win10rt.zip](https://ota.maa.plus/MaaAssistantArknights/api/binaries/win10rt.zip), unzip all .dll files to the same directory as `MAA.exe`.

### Possible cause 3: other runtime library problems

- If you are a user of Windows Server or other lite versions, you can try [Microsoft C++ Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/) to configure a complete development environment (only .NET and C++ environments are required).

- **Please note that you may need about 10GB disk space to install these tools, so make sure that your free space is enough.**

## Connection error

- Tips: please refer to the [List of the Supported Emulators](1.3-EMULATOR_SUPPORTS.md) section to ensure that the emulator you are using is officially supported and that your configuration is correct.
- If you are using softwares such as a game accelerator, please close the softwares, RESTART your computer and try again.
- Please check your decompression software - in some cases, using uncommon software such as `7z` or _other niche decompression software_ may cause errors in Minitouch related files.

### Approach 1: make sure ADB and address are correct

- Make sure that MAA `Settings` - `Connection Settings` - `adb path` is automatically filled in. If so, skip to the next step. Otherwise:
  - Option 1: find the installation path of your emulator, where there may be a file named `adb.exe` (or something similar, e.g. `nox_adb.exe`, `HD-adb.exe`, `adb_server.exe`, etc., any EXE files with `adb`). Simply choose the file in the connection settings of MAA!
  - Option 2: download [adb](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/platform-tools-latest-windows.zip) and unzip it. Select the `adb.exe` file.

- Confirm that your connection address is filled in correctly. The ADB address is usually like `127.0.0.1:5555`, depending on the emulators (except Leidian emulator).

#### Common ADB ports for popular Android emulators

- Single instance / first instance in multi-instance mode

  For single instance mode, please refer to the documentation for each emulator and the blog post by NetEase senior game development engineer @Zhao Qingqing to find the default ADB ports for common Android emulators:

    |Emulator|Default ADB port|
    |-|:-:|
    |NetEase MuMu emulator 6/X|7555|
    |NetEase MuMu emulator 12|16384|
    |NoxPlayer emulator|62001|
    |BlueStacks emulator|5555|
    |LDPlayer emulator 9|5555 / emulator-5554|

    You can connect to emulators with purely numeric ports using `127.0.0.1:[port]`. LDPlayer emulator has its own wrapper, so you can also use `emulator-5554` to connect.

    If you need to modify the connection settings in the `Settings` - `Connection Settings` - `Connection Address` on Windows or Mac, please refer to the table above.

- Multi-instance mode

  - For NoxPlayer emulator, the port of the first device is `62001`, and the ports for subsequent devices start from `62025`.
  - For NetEase MuMu emulator 12, the ADB ports for multi-instance mode are irregular. To find the ADB port for a running emulator, launch the emulator from MuMu Multi-instance Manager 12, then click on the ADB icon in the upper-right corner.
  - For LDPlayer emulator 9, the local ADB port starts from `5555`, and subsequent ports increment by 2. For example, the second emulator has a local port of `5557`.

### Approach 2: change emulator

Change to another emulator, such as [Bluestacks international version](https://www.bluestacks.com/download.html) Nougat 64 bit.

_After installation of Bluestack, you need to enable `Android Debug Bridge` in the settings._

### Approach 3: close extra adb processes

- Close MAA and check for any adb processes in the task manager. If there are any, please close them and retry.

### Approach 4: restart computer

Try restarting your computer.

## Connected successfully, then stuck, not operating at all

The adb version packaged with some emulators is too old and does not support minitouch. Please open MAA with administrator priviledge and navigate to `Settings` - `Connection Settings` - `Forced Replace ADB`. (It is recommended to close the emulator and restart MAA before proceeding, otherwise the replacement may not be sussessful.)

The emulator will reset the ADB version after updating. If the problems occurs again, please repeat the above steps. Or you can try to use the [custom connection](1.1-USER_MANUAL.md#custom-connection) method to solve it once and for all.

If it still doesn't work, please retry after switching to `MaaTouch` from `Minitouch` in `Settings` - `Connection Settings`.

## Connected successfully, but actions are slow or error are frequent

- The auto battle requires you to go to the screen with the `Start` button. Please confirm they are not related.
- If you are using a non-CN client, please go to MAA Settings - Start Up Settings - Select your client version. And not all features are supported for non-CN client, please refer to docs.
- If you are running auto-IS function, please PIN UP the IS theme you want in the game, and select IS theme in MAA Settings - IS Settings.
- The input method `Adb Input` is natrually slow. It is recommended to use `MaaTouch` or `Minitouch` instead.

## The download speed is slow and the mirror site is not accessible

1. Go to [Download](../../README.md#Download) to get the link (non-mirror) to you want to download.
2. Find the link to your file you need to download.
3. Right-click it and select `Copy link address`.
4. Paste the link into your browser.
5. Replace the `github.com` in the link with `download.fastgit.org`.
6. Press `Enter` to download.

## Download halfway and prompt "login"/"authentication"

Please use a browser / IDM / FDM and other regular downloaders to download files, **Do NOT fucking use Thunder!**
